Section of 2nd Corinthians chapter number 12 when he says that the Lord responded and said my grace is sufficient for thee
but the latter part is this for my strength is made perfect in weakness and
So thankful for the work of God in our lives
Reminded from the book of John in the 15th chapter without him
we can do nothing that he is the vine and we're simply the branches and
What a joy to know the Lord as our personal Savior and that he would work in and through us Hebrews chapter number 5
Hebrews chapter number 5 would be looking at 11 through 14 verses 11 through 14 today
Hebrews 5
Verses 11 through 14 and as we continue through the book of Hebrews as we've been studying here Hebrews
On Sunday mornings our theme looking unto Jesus from Hebrews 12 and verse number 1
He is the author and finisher of our faith and so thankful as I've mentioned many times during this pandemic
That we can have the peace of God which passeth all understanding
Not because we have our head in the sand
But because we have our eyes on our Savior and we are looking unto Jesus and I'm so thankful in God's
Divine plan and his wisdom. He led me to this particular study for
2020 of course back in September of
2019 is when God made it clear for me
That we would go through the book of Hebrews and have as our theme looking unto Jesus
I never could have expected what we would deal with in
2020 someone made a meme again. We use that word. It's kind of interesting
I use that on one of those services and I had a bunch of teenagers
Let me know what meme means and I said, well, I'm just glad to know that the teenagers are listening
amen, but the reality is that somebody said
2020 came out looking like a
Chocolate chip cookie and I know Kimberly you love chocolate chip cookies
And it was just looking just so desirable and then you bit into it and BAM
It was an oatmeal raisin cookie, you know, and that's just so just ah
you know those of you that like oatmeal raisin the Lord bless you and
I'm not really too interested in oatmeal raisin cookies
But anyway, I thought that was kind of funny. Somebody sent that to me yesterday and I thought that was kind of funny
However as we get here to Hebrews chapter number 5 and looking at verses 11 through 14
Really what we see is the third warning passage in the book of Hebrews
We've mentioned as we've studied through the book of Hebrews that we have found that there's instruction that is given and then we'll come to
A warning passage and then there's more instruction and then a warning passage
this is our third warning passage if you were with us last week and
Sunday morning Hebrews 5 verses 1 through 10
our great high priest and we dealt with the importance of that passage of Scripture and just how
Foundational the truth is and all that God would give us remember
It was the subject of Christ's price priesthood and how his priesthood is superior
to the Aaronic priesthood and we dealt with
the introduction of that subject in the first 10 verses of Hebrews 5 and I made note last week that this
Teaching this truth would be further developed in Hebrews 7 8 9 and 10
There's a lot of information that is given to us about Christ's priesthood and why it's superior how it's superior
in fact
we found that as we studied last week in these first 10 verses that he deals with the subject of Melchizedek and the fact that
The Lord Jesus Christ is not after the order of Aaron or the Levitical priesthood
But that he was after the priesthood of Melchizedek that great truth in Psalm
110 that Messianic Psalm that talked about a greater priest that would come
And we find that the Bible fulfills that gives us the fulfillment of that in verse number six and helps us to interpret
the truth of Psalm 110
Where the Bible says thou art a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek
I made this statement last week of why this was so important and so significant was because priests were from the tribe of Levi
However, the Lord Jesus Christ we know is from the tribe of Judah
So he could not be a priest after the Levitical priesthood after the order of Aaron
But we find that he is our great high priest and he's after the order of Melchizedek
It's interesting because chapter number seven deals in a great deal with the priesthood of Melchizedek and gives us all sorts of information
and really deals with that but we come to verse 11 of chapter 5 and
really all of chapter number 6 and see that it's a warning passage and so as
The writer of under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit
We find in verse number 10 called of God and high priest after the order of Melchizedek
but then look at verse number 11 of
Whom we have many things to say and hard to be uttered
Seeing ye are dull of hearing
For when for the time you ought to be teachers you have need that one teach you again
Which be the first principles of the oracles of God and are become such as have need of milk and not of strong meat
For everyone that useth milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness
For he is a babe, but strong meat belongeth to them that are a full age
Even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil
The phrase at the end of verse number 11 will serve as our title today
ye are dull of
hearing and
We find this warning passages given to us
It's interesting as we would note the subject and how that it would be further developed in Hebrews 7 8 9 and 10
the subject of Christ's priesthood and how it's superior, but this warning passage is given to us and it's it's really
Right at the appropriate spot. We understand the scriptures are given by inspiration of God
They're perfect and we find that God gives this warning to the recipients
It's interesting if we consider the other warnings that we've studied thus far
The first warning was given to us in Hebrews 2 verses 1 through 4
I preached a message from that passage of scripture that I entitled listen up
Listen up
Notice in verse number 1 of Hebrews 2 the Bible says therefore we ought to give the more earnest
Heed to the things which we have heard
Lest at any time we should let them slip and there was the potential of letting these things slip
and so we preached a message on listen up and how we need to give our
Attention to the teaching and preaching of the Word of God to the Word of God
That's been delivered to us and what a joy to have the Bible and we must listen up
we find that the second warning is really contained in Hebrews 3 beginning in verse number 7 and
Going through chapter number 4 in verse number 13, and it's a lengthy warning and in that passage of scripture
I actually preached two messages, but one that really
Captures the warning was this hearing and believing
Hearing and believing you remember in Hebrews chapter 4 in verse number 1
It says let us therefore fear lest a promise being left us of
Entering into his rest any of you should seem to come short of for unto us was the gospel preached as well as unto them
So you see that distinction between us and them that is given here and it says but the word preached did not profit them
notice not being mixed with faith in them that heard it and of course the
Example is given throughout the passage of scripture with regard to Old Testament Israel and their
Unbelief and their heart and heart and remember he had mentioned in chapter number 3 about that event
That's recorded in numbers 13 and 14 when those 12 spies went out and the 10 came back with that evil report and there
they did not believe what God said and the danger of not believing thus we
Receive the warning and we receive the instruction to hear and believe of course the Word of God
Gives us the importance of being doers of the word and not hearers only if we believe it
I've often said that our belief will impact our behavior
On the flip side of that coin is that our behavior reveals our belief and we find here as we come to this third
Warning section that he says to these recipients that they are dull of
Hearing the word literally means slow or sluggish
It carries with the idea of being slothful. It's interesting. It's that's the
way that Hebrews 6 and verse number 12 the same Greek word that's used here to
Being translated dull of hearing is translated in Hebrews 6 and verse number 12
It says that you be not slothful. And so we see that
The the writer of Hebrews he's being very direct. The Word of God is direct
the gospel is confrontational and
we find that there are plenty of examples throughout the Word of God where we are confronted with truth where we are
Receiving the direct nature of God as he would meet us where we are and he would come and he would
Give us truth. The Word of God is direct. Listen, the writer of Hebrews is not being unkind to the recipients. He's not
seeking to
diminish them in any sense of their value or to criticize them in a sense of
Tearing them down. No, he's seeking to edify and to encourage them, but he's pointing out
a reality that they were dull of hearing and therefore he was not able to teach
them all that he wanted to teach them at that particular time and therefore this
warning is given. Oh that we would take heed to the warning and we'll mention
things at the end of the message this morning that we would never be
categorized as one that is dull of hearing. We find in the text of Scripture
if you're taking notes number one the imparting of spiritual truth the
imparting of spiritual truth notice what is said in Hebrews 5 in verse number
11 of course it's the continuation of what we found in our previous text when
he's speaking about the order of Melchizedek and Christ being an high
priest after the order of Melchizedek notice in verse 11 of whom notice this
phrase we have many things to say we have many things to say as I look at
that phrase in verse number 11 I am reminded of the imparting of spiritual
truth and really the desire of the spiritual leader to impart spiritual
truth as we would think about the writer of the book of Hebrews as we would think
about the the spiritual leaders that we find throughout the Word of God as we
would consider those that have been spiritual leaders in our own lives as we
would begin to understand their desire to impart spiritual truth to teach the
Word of God see we find that the teaching that that we are to give is
really in following the truth of the Great Commission it's wonderful to see
people saved and to see people baptized but there is that portion of the Great
Commission that deals with discipleship and we think about the imparting of
spiritual truth and how wonderful that is I want you to go back to Matthew 28
and I want you to consider what is said here in this passage of Scripture this
is the first record that we have of the Great Commission of course it's given in
all four of the Gospels again in the book of Acts and we find here that as
the Great Commission is given in Matthew 28 verses 18 through 20 the Bible says
this and Jesus came and spake unto them saying all power is given unto me in
heaven and in earth go ye therefore notice the first aspect and teach all
nations that's the first aspect of the Great Commission and that's really
dealing with the gospel giving the gospel to all nations the fact that
Christ died according to the Scriptures that he was buried and that he rose
again on the third day according to the Scriptures the gospel the good news of
Jesus Christ and we find that we're to give the gospel to teach all nations
notice baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy
Ghost the second aspect of the Great Commission is that of baptism baptism
cannot save you there are some that would rely upon their baptism is their
reason for being saved or being born again that you'd ask someone are you
going to heaven are you a hundred percent sure if you were to die today
that heaven's your home I've had people tell me yes because they were baptized
baptism cannot save you it's only the blood of Jesus Christ that can save you
and after the gospel is preached then there's that that Oh that first act of
obedience which is baptism we find that it's that identification with the Lord
Jesus Christ it is that I am identifying with him because I'm now a child of his
it's interesting you don't need to turn there but in Romans chapter number six
we find that Paul deals with this truth with regard to baptism and he says this
in verse 3 know you not that so many of us were as were baptized into Jesus
Christ were baptized into his death therefore we are buried with him by
baptism into death that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory
of the Father even so we also should walk in newness of life I cannot save
you but it is the first step of obedience for every child of God you
remember with Philip there the evangelist in the Ethiopian eunuch in
Acts chapter number 8 the the man is reading the book of Isaiah he's reading
in the 53rd chapter and God calls Philip and tells him to go and to join himself
to this Ethiopian eunuch and he's reading and the man has no idea what
he's reading and he says who speaks this man of himself or of someone else and
Philip preaches Christ to this man and he says he responds to to Philip and he
says see here's water what does hinder me to be baptized we find that what
hindered him to be baptized was the fact that he needed to be saved first we find
that Philip responds to him in that manner it's interesting that as we would
look at the passage of Scripture and see the bold declaration of this eunuch we
find that Philip said if thou believest with all thine heart thou mayest and he
answered that eunuch said I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God and then
he was baptized when we have a baptismal service when someone is following the
Lord and believers baptism we ask them are you a hundred percent sure if you
were to die today that heaven's your home have you trusted the Lord Jesus
Christ and his finished work at Calvary for your salvation yes I have based
upon your profession of faith I now baptize you in the name that's how we
follow why because that's the example the pattern that we see in the Word of
God so the first aspect of the Great Commission to teach all nations to give
the gospel number two to baptize but notice the third aspect is it's given to
us in Matthew 28 in verse number 20 teaching them to observe all things
whatsoever I have commanded you and lo I am with you always even unto the end of
the world amen that third aspect of the Great Commission is vital it's so
important that we would be engaged in the work of discipleship I've thoroughly
enjoyed over the years the opportunity to have discipleship classes with
individuals and to go through various curriculum and to have them learn and to
teach them and to sit across a desk or around a table and to engage in the work
of discipleship and we find that there's yes teaching that takes place within the
services of the church and as a pastor I have the responsibility to feed the
flock of God that's what God tells me is one of my jobs you read that in first
Peter chapter number five that instruction has been given to pastors to
feed the flock of God and oh how I long to be obedient to that instruction and
to that requirement to feed the flock of God but to be involved in discipleship
to teach people to impart the spiritual truth we find that here as we would look
at the writing of this warning the the beginning of the warning he says we have
many things to say the imparting of spiritual truth I think about what Paul
said now again you don't need to turn there but in Acts chapter number 20 in
verse number 20 as Paul is speaking to the Ephesian elders he had called them
there and he's speaking to them and he says this in verse number 20 of Acts 20
and how I kept back nothing that was profitable unto you but have showed you
and have taught you publicly and from house to house see Paul was engaged in
giving spiritual truth and imparting spiritual truth to those that God
enabled him to have a ministry to and we see throughout the life and ministry of
the Apostle Paul how that he faithfully imparted spiritual truth he says to
Timothy in 2nd Timothy 2 in verse number 2 and the things that thou hast heard of
me among many witnesses the same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able
to teach others also that process of discipleship that imparting of spiritual
truth and we find that there's a desire for the imparting of spiritual truth
there are many things to say there's a problem there's an issue at hand if
there are many things to say we could have skipped from verse number 10 to
right to chapter number 7 and dealt with that which Paul wanted to say or the
writer of Hebrews here wanted to say no we we do not believe that there was
anything that was difficult on the part of the one giving the instruction see it
wasn't a matter of the the spiritual leader not being able to impart the
spiritual truth the problem was on the recipients that's why the warning is
given it we find that there's the imparting of spiritual truth number two
if you're taking notes the immaturity of the Saints the immaturity of the Saints
notice as we finish verse number 11 he says of whom we have many things to say
and hard to be uttered seeing your doll of hearing they weren't hard to be
uttered because he didn't know how to give the truth they weren't hard to be
uttered because he couldn't formulate that which he wanted to give no they
were hard to be uttered because you are dull of hearing because the recipients
because of the immaturity of the Saints and we find that this immaturity that is
given to us in these verses of Scripture we find that as a result of the fact
that they were dull of hearing notice it says that you're dull of hearing and
then notice as we continue in verse number 12 notice what he says for when
for the time you ought to be teachers you have need that one teach you again
which be the first principles of the oracles of God so we find that the
immaturity of the Saints is revealed to us through the fact that they had need
that one teach them but notice what the Word of God says it says you have need
Notice this word, again.
You have need that one teach you again, what?
Which be the first principles of the oracles of God.
In other words, the basics.
And you have need that one teach you again.
It was not that they had not been taught.
It was that they were dull of hearing.
And we find that the problem with the recipients
being dull of hearing led to their spiritual immaturity.
He tells them that they have need that one teach them again.
These first principles of the oracles of God.
He then tells them that they have need of milk.
Notice at the end of verse number 12,
and are become such as have need of milk and not of strong meat.
For everyone that useth milk is unskillful
in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe.
Now, the reality is that this is not an insult
against babes in Christ.
We all trust at Christ at some point in our lives.
And when we trust at Christ as our Savior,
the Bible likens us to that truth of the second birth
and we are babes in Christ.
And as babes in Christ, we are to grow and we are to develop.
We are to go on to spiritual maturity.
And we'll deal with that in our last point this morning.
But we're to grow and he says here
that these individuals that he's writing to,
we know two things based upon the Scriptures.
Number one, we know that they're saved people.
Because we know that the Bible tells us
in 1 Corinthians 2 and verse number 14,
the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God.
Neither can he know them because they are spiritually discerned.
And I missed the middle section of that verse of Scripture.
And when he says this,
but the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God,
for they are foolishness unto him, neither can he know them.
Why? Because they are spiritually discerned.
And the reality is that we know that as he is saying,
I have many things to say,
and they're hard to be uttered.
Why? Because you're dull of hearing.
And for when the time that you ought to be teachers,
you have need that one teach you.
He's not writing to lost people.
He's writing to saved people.
Because the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God.
They're foolishness unto him.
What does the natural man, the unregenerate man,
what does he need? He needs the Gospel.
The first aspect of the Great Commission.
That's what needs to be given to that group of people.
Those that are unsure of their salvation.
They've never trusted Christ as their personal Savior.
What do we teach them? We teach them the Gospel.
And then they get saved.
And then they get baptized.
And then we teach them to observe all things,
whatsoever I have commanded you,
that process of discipleship.
And so we understand as we look at the passage of Scripture here,
that the writer is not writing to lost people.
He's writing to saved people that are just immature spiritually.
Why? Because they're dull of hearing.
Notice, as we would consider this truth in this passage of Scripture,
we would say this, unfortunately,
that this was, and in some cases continues to be,
a problem within the church.
And it's an unfortunate reality
that we would find as we come to the passage of Scripture,
but we'd understand that the writer of Hebrews
is not seeking to destroy these individuals.
I believe that he's seeking to confront them
with their lack of spiritual growth
and to encourage them to grow.
Think about this. Turn back, if you will, to Acts chapter 28.
The Apostle Paul is entertaining a group of people here.
In Acts chapter 28, it's the last chapter of the book,
and we find that God is giving us some information.
Paul, of course, would arrive in Rome,
and there's some interaction that is taking place.
And we begin looking at the passage in verse number 22.
The Bible says,
But we desire to hear of thee what thou thinkest.
First, concerning this sect, we know that everywhere it is spoken against.
And when they had appointed him a day,
there came many to him into his lodging.
So this group of people, Paul's in Rome,
he's under house arrest, and they come to where he is.
They appointed a day, according to verse number 23.
And it says there in verse number 23,
To whom he expounded and testified the kingdom of God,
persuading them concerning Jesus,
both out of the law of Moses and out of the prophets,
from morning till evening.
And some believed the things which were spoken,
and some believed not.
And when they agreed not among themselves,
they departed after that.
Paul had spoken one word, and he says this.
It's a quote from Isaiah.
Well spake the Holy Ghost by Isaiah the prophet unto our fathers,
saying, Go unto this people and say,
Hearing ye shall hear and shall not understand,
and seeing ye shall see and not perceive.
This is in Isaiah 6.
You remember the context of Isaiah 6.
It's in that passage of Scripture that the Bible tells us
that it was in the year that King Uzziah died.
In Isaiah, he sees that vision of God high, holy, and lifted up.
And his train did fill the temple.
And he hears the Lord say,
Whom shall I send and who will go for me?
And Isaiah volunteers, Hear him, I, send me.
And we find that God then gives him the direction
and the instruction for that ministry
that he had volunteered for.
And we find that this is a portion of that passage of Scripture.
He says in v. 27,
For the heart of this people is waxed gross,
and their ears are dull of hearing,
and their eyes have they closed,
lest they should see with their eyes
and hear with their ears,
and understand with their heart,
and should be converted,
and I should heal them.
These are people that of course,
as we would look within the context
that he's preaching the Gospel to them,
and there were some that believed according to v. 24,
but there were some that believed not.
And he says that this is like that which Isaiah had prophesied
with regard to the heart of the people,
and rejecting that which is given.
And he says that they were dull of hearing.
We understand that that can be the case for lost people,
just as it is appointed here in Hebrews 5
for those that are Christians,
those that have been born again,
that immaturity of the saints.
Notice in 1 Corinthians 3,
Paul dealt with this issue with the believers in Corinth,
and about a year and a half ago,
maybe a little longer now,
we studied through the book of 1 Corinthians
in our adult Sunday school class,
and as we studied through the book of 1 Corinthians,
we made note on many occasion
that the church at Corinth was not a model church.
The church in Corinth, in fact, had many problems.
We find that this is dealt with in v. 1 of this section,
and it's dealt with in various portions of 1 Corinthians,
but what I want to highlight to you this morning
is 1 Corinthians 3, verses 1-3,
where the Bible says this.
Notice what Paul says to them.
And I, brethren, could not speak unto you
as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal,
even as unto babes in Christ.
I have fed you with milk and not with meat.
For hitherto, notice what he says,
ye were not able to bear it,
neither yet now are ye able.
There was a problem of spiritual immaturity
even in the church in Corinth,
and Paul says there are some things
that I wanted to teach you,
some things I wanted to speak unto you,
but I could not speak unto you as unto spiritual,
but as unto carnal,
even as babes in Christ.
I fed you with milk,
but I could not feed you with the meat of the Word of God.
Why? Because you were carnal,
and you were not able to bear it,
and still, you're not able to bear it.
He says this in v. 3,
for ye are yet carnal,
whereas there is among you envying
and strife and divisions.
Are ye not carnal?
And walk as men.
The evidence of their spiritual immaturity,
the evidence was their carnality.
It was their envying and their strife
and their division.
We find that Paul would then go into
an exposition of dealing with their carnality
where they were in the church in Corinth
and there were a group of people saying,
I'm of Apollos, I'm of Paul, I'm of Cephas,
and they were all divided amongst themselves.
And Paul says that you're carnal.
You've not matured spiritually.
As we look in our text back in Hebrews 5,
we examine this warning passage.
We find that it's the imparting of spiritual truth.
The writer says we have many things to say.
It's hard to be uttered. Why?
Seeing that you're dull of hearing.
We find the imparting of spiritual truth,
the immaturity of the saints
was the result of the fact
that they were dull of hearing.
They had need that one teach them again
the first principles of the oracles of God.
They were in need of milk.
They were unskillful as we see in v. 13,
for everyone that useth milk is unskillful
in the word of righteousness,
for he is a babe.
The immaturity of the saints.
Notice finally this morning,
number 3, if you're taking notes,
the importance of spiritual growth.
The importance of spiritual growth.
There's a comparison that is given to us here
in an analogy, if you will.
We saw it in 1 Corinthians 3 as well.
But we find here that there's this comparison
that is made,
and I believe that it's a physical comparison.
It is a truth that we could relate to
similar to how the Lord Jesus Christ
would use parables in His teaching.
And He would use these parables
as He would teach
so that they would understand
the spiritual truth.
He was using this teaching of...
nature to drive home a spiritual truth, and we see that here in Hebrews 5, just
as we did in 1st Corinthians 3, and he uses this subject and he uses the
the phraseologies or the items of milk and meat. Now we understand the truth of
physical maturity. Physical maturity is expected, right? There are charts that
they have at the doctor's offices for all of those wellness checkups for those
of us that remember when our children were young, and maybe some that are still
dealing with some of those things where you're taking your children for wellness
checkups. We had the opportunity to see our newest niece yesterday, and man, she's
just like six pounds and three or four ounces, just a tiny little baby girl, and
she's doing well, and there was comment made about, well, at her checkup on
Thursday, and there are certain charts and there are expectations of physical
maturity. Not only when it comes to weight and height, but when it comes to
the motor skills, there's a certain age in which you expect that the babies are
gonna start rolling over, they're gonna start crawling, they're gonna start
walking, and then it gets real, amen? But the reality is that there is the
expectation of physical maturity. Becky has been showing pictures and speaking
about some of the progress of Sophie and some of her maturity and what she's
doing as she's growing and rolling over and sitting up and various things. It's
expected. In like manner, spiritual maturity should be evident, should be
expected. Notice what is said in the passage of Scripture here in verse
number 12. We think about the importance of spiritual growth. He says this at the
beginning of the verse, "...for when? For the time ye ought to be teachers." What does
that reveal to us? Well, I've said a couple of things already. We understand
that he's not speaking about a lost person, he's not speaking about the
natural man. We've understood that from 1 Corinthians 2 and verse 14, but we also
understand that as he's speaking to these saved individuals, he's not
speaking to new converts. He's not speaking to those that should have a
milk diet, that should have the basics of the Word of God. The basics are
important, and by the way, it's good for us to review the basics on a regular
basis as God's people, but we ought to go on to spiritual maturity. There ought to
be this spiritual growth that is evident in the life of a believer, and we
find that the importance of spiritual growth is given to us in the passage of
Scripture. These individuals that are being addressed in Hebrews chapter
5, they had been saved long enough to go on to spiritual maturity. In 1 Peter 2
and verse number 2, the Bible says, "...as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of
the Word that ye may grow thereby." There's that natural desire as a believer, there
should be a natural desire for the things of the Word of God. I want to grow.
"...as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the Word that ye may grow thereby."
We find that that's in 1 Peter 2 and verse number 2. In 2 Peter 3 and
verse number 18, Peter ends this epistle by saying, "...but grow in grace and in the
knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, to him be glory both now and
forever. Amen." The importance of spiritual growth, we find it really dealt with
throughout the Word of God. We find it's interesting in verse number 1 of chapter
6, he says, "...therefore leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ,"
notice what he says, "...let us go on unto perfection." We'll deal with this passage
next week, but we find this idea of letting us go on, go on to spiritual
maturity, the importance of spiritual growth. We see in verse number 14, he says,
"...but strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who by reason
of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil." It's
interesting, you would not feed yesterday when Ayla was there, and she's just, I
guess, tomorrow she'll be two weeks old. We had meat for lunch, but we didn't feed
her any meat. It would have been terribly irresponsible to feed meat to that
two-week-old baby. Number one, she doesn't have teeth to chew the meat. Number two,
she does not have the ability to digest the meat. It could cause serious problems. So we
did not give her meat. No, we ate meat and she drank a bottle. That's what was
appropriate for her. By the way, I'm thankful that I didn't have a bottle of
milk that was set at my place. I like the meat, you know? And the reality is he's
using this physical analogy to drive home this spiritual point. He's saying
that, yes, the milk is important. You can't skip the milk. You can't. Because as
newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the words that you may grow thereby. You
need the milk, and it's good to go back, and even as adults we still have milk in
our diet, but our diet as adults, physically speaking, doesn't consist
only of milk. And we find that there's this analogy of strong meat, and it says
that it belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who by reason of use
have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. I've said throughout
the years that we're as close to God as we want to be. We've grown in our
spiritual life as much as we really want to. The reality is that physically
speaking, there's a process of maturity. And there are times in which young
people, and maybe even their parents, they want children to go beyond what
physically they should be doing because of their desire to see them advance. We
think about it from a spiritual aspect, that truth of spiritual growth is
something that is available to every child of God. We can be as close to God
as we want to be. We can grow as quickly as we want to grow. And our spiritual
growth is directly linked to our relationship to God's Word, because this
is what causes growth in the life of believer. Notice what he says with regard
to this spiritual growth, and really the impact of this spiritual growth, or the
result of it. It says, even those, at the end of verse 14, who by reason of use, this
is that spiritual maturity, the spiritual growth, it says they have their senses
exercised to discern both good and evil. As we grow spiritually, God gives us the
ability to discern between good and evil. And oh how we need discernment. There are
times in which we've observed a lack of discernment amongst the people of God.
There are times perhaps in our own lives, if we'd be honest, that we've lacked
that spiritual maturity, that spiritual growth, and maybe we're not pressing on,
maybe we're not going on as we should. Maybe things have gotten kind of stale,
if you will. Maybe in certain regards we've gotten to the place where we'd say,
you know, I've been dull of hearing. It's not that I don't love God, it's not that
I don't want to read the Bible. I've just kind of gotten stale, if you will. No, no,
that we would go on, that we'd understand this warning passage, that we'd
understand that God has so much for us, and that yes, it's good to be saved, and
it's good to know the truth of the crucifixion, and the life of Christ,
His crucifixion, His burial, His resurrection, those are wonderful things,
but we need to go on to spiritual maturity, allowing the Lord to have His
work in our lives that He desires to have. In Hebrews 13 and verses 20 and 21,
when the Bible speaks about the Great Shepherd, the Lord Jesus
Christ in that role, we dealt with this during one of our sessions with our
pandemic, and one of the Bible studies that we had one of those evenings
dealing with the Lord as our Shepherd, and here the Great Shepherd is the term
that is given to Him. We found that He is the Good Shepherd, the Great Shepherd,
and the Chief Shepherd, and here the Bible tells us in Hebrews 13 and verse
20, now the God of peace that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that
Great Shepherd of the sheep through the blood of the everlasting covenant, notice
in verse 21, make you perfect in every good work to do His will, working in you
that which is well-pleasing in His sight through Jesus Christ to whom be glory
forever and ever, amen. This is the work that God wants to do in us, and that He
would make us perfect, that word means complete, in every good work to do His
will. We find that He spoke about there, as we mentioned already in verse number
1 of chapter 6, let us go on unto perfection, let us go on to spiritual
maturity, if you will, and here the warning is given. What an appropriate
warning that is given by the author of Hebrews, of course the the Lord Himself,
all scripture is given by inspiration of God, it's God's Word, and God knew where
they were spiritually, and He knew that they needed this warning, see because
there were many things to say. There was instruction that was
needed to be given,
but it was hard to be uttered because they were dull of hearing.
And so this warning was given to bring them to a place of repentance,
to bring them to a place where they would deal with that,
and that they would go on,
and then they would be ready to receive the instruction.
I'm mindful of the way in which the Apostle Paul speaks highly of the Bereans.
In closing, turn to Acts 17, if you will.
It's interesting as we would look at what takes place here,
and really in Acts chapter number 17,
we find that they arrive in Thessalonica and the work is given there,
and they're not there for a very lengthy period of time
as we've mentioned with many of these places
in which the Apostle Paul was able to go during his missionary journeys.
There was much opposition and difficulty,
and as much as we can tell,
they were there just for a very short period of time, just a few weeks,
and they reasoned with them out of the Scriptures,
and we find that the Bible tells us,
to just catch it in context,
that there were folks that believed, there were some that believed not.
We see that in verse number 4, and some of them believed,
and then in verse number 5,
but the Jews which believed not moved with envy,
and here comes the difficulties, the opposition.
It says in verse number 6,
And when they found them not,
they drew Jason and certain brethren under the rulers of the city,
crying, These that have turned the world upside down are come hither also.
And through a series of events,
we find that the brethren, in verse number 10,
immediately sent away Paul and Silas by night unto Berea.
And it says,
Who coming thither went into the synagogue of the Jews,
these were more noble than those in Thessalonica,
and that they received the word with all readiness of mind,
and searched the Scriptures daily,
whether those things were so.
When Paul and Silas went to Berea,
and they went into the synagogue of the Jews,
he's speaking about these Jews in the synagogue,
that they were more noble than those in Thessalonica,
for two reasons.
Number one, they received the word with all readiness of mind.
Now think about the difference, the contrast, if you will,
between these that received the word with readiness of mind,
versus those that are being addressed in Hebrews 5,
that were said to be dull of hearing.
He says, you received it with readiness of mind,
and you searched the Scriptures daily, whether those things were so.
Now we know that when Paul went to Thessalonica,
that there were some that believed according to verse number 4,
and they consorted with Paul and Silas,
and of the devout Greeks, a great multitude,
and of the chief women, not a few,
but then the Jews, which believed not, moved with envy.
And that's the comparison that Paul is making here,
for we know that when he writes to the church in Thessalonica,
when he's writing to those that believe,
that are mentioned in verse number 4,
that he writes to these folks in 1 Thessalonians 2,
and he commends them for the fact that they received the word of God,
which he heard of us, he received it, not as the word of men,
but as it is in truth, the word of God.
Now notice, in 1 Thessalonians 2 and verse number 13,
it ends like this,
which effectually worketh also in you that believe.
Why did Paul tell Timothy, preach the word?
We started a series in the book of Titus in our adult Sunday school,
and we've only gotten a few weeks into our series,
and that's been postponed until we're able to meet together again.
But as we dealt with the subject of the book of Titus,
we've given Grounded and Settled as our title for that series,
and the importance of being spiritually mature,
and the importance of that spiritual growth in our lives.
And we've spoken of the fact that there was the truth that was given to us
with regard to those that were not going to endure sound doctrine.
Those that would be able to, as Titus would go forth,
and he would set in order the things that were wanting,
and then ordain elders in every city,
that they were going to pick men in the qualifications that were given,
and one of them was that by sound doctrine,
they were to exhort and to convince the gainsayers.
And we spoke about the importance of sound doctrine.
Paul told Timothy to preach the word.
It's interesting, as we would understand why he tells Timothy to preach the word,
it's because of the nature, the fact that the word of God is profitable,
and we see that in verse number 16 of 2 Timothy chapter number 3,
when he says,
All scripture is given by inspiration of God is profitable for doctrine,
for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness,
that the man of God may be perfect,
throughly furnished unto all good works.
And then the charge is given in verse number 1 of chapter 4,
and it continues through, really, verse number 5,
but he tells them to preach the word.
Why?
Because the word is going to benefit, it's profitable,
and it's going to help individuals come to that place of spiritual growth,
of spiritual maturity.
And so as we look at the warning of Hebrews chapter number 5, verses 11 through 14,
we find, first of all, the imparting of spiritual truth.
We have many things to say.
The desire of the spiritual leader to impart spiritual truth,
to fulfill the entirety of the Great Commission,
to preach the gospel, to see people follow the Lord in believer's baptism,
but then to teach them all things whatsoever I have commanded you.
We see the immaturity of the saints.
It says that these things that he had to say, many things that he had to say,
that they were hard to be uttered.
Why?
Because by saying you're dull of hearing, the immaturity of the saints.
It was a problem, but it was a problem that needed to be addressed.
It was a problem that needed to be resolved.
So that he then highlights for them the importance of spiritual growth.
Oh, that we would determine in our lives that we're concerned about our spiritual growth.
See, in our society today, obviously things are different today
than they have been in recent years,
but there's such a focus on so many things from a developmental perspective.
There's much information that's given in many businesses that make lots of money,
and I know they're closed down right now because of the pandemic,
but just health centers and fitness centers.
The importance of focusing on the physical health or the physical growth.
There's a truth.
The Bible tells us that bodily exercise profiteth little.
It's an interesting verse of scripture, is it not?
Bodily exercise profiteth little.
There's a benefit to it.
But oh, sometimes what happens is we're out of balance.
We focus so much on the physical that we forget to focus on the spiritual.
The spiritual growth.
The spiritual maturity.
And the writer of Hebrews says there's an importance of spiritual growth.
Oh, that we would go on to spiritual maturity.
That we would be able to have that strong meat.
That we would have the ability to discern between both good and evil.
The warning is given.
It must be received, and they must seek to resolve the problem
so that they could then receive that which is going to be given.
We'll continue with the warning in chapter number six in our next couple of weeks
as we look through the passage of scripture,
and then eventually get to chapter number seven.
We deal with that which the writer is saying we have many things to say.
But we're dull of hearing, and that needed to be addressed.
Let us pray.
Father, we love you this morning.
We thank you for loving us.
Lord, I pray this morning that as we look at this warning
that is given to the recipients of the book of Hebrews,
we find that it's been preserved for us.
The warnings have gotten more severe.
Listen up in chapter two.
Hear and believe there in chapter number three and four.
And now we come to this latter portion of chapter five,
and we see that they're told that they're dull of hearing.
God, I pray that it would not be said of any of us that we are dull of hearing,
but I also pray that we would not be deceived.
Lord, that if there's one amongst us, one that's watching the live stream,
the Holy Spirit of God would prick our hearts
and we would be honest in our evaluation.
We've often spoken of the truth from 1 Corinthians 11,
let a man examine himself.
We've often spoken about the importance of that self-examination
being done in honesty and in humility.
Self-deception is the greatest level of deception.
And it's our prayer that we would not be self-deceived.
And Lord, if we would be guilty of being dull of hearing,
would you help us to get that resolved?
Help us to not be categorized as those that are immature spiritually.
Father, help us to understand the importance of spiritual growth,
that we would purpose in our lives to spend more time with you and your word,
seeking specifically to grow and to develop in our walk with thee,
that we'd allow you to have your will and way in our lives,
that we would understand the importance of the spiritual.
I pray, God, that you would bless,
the Holy Spirit of God would work as only he can.
I pray that if there's one that's not sure of heaven,
they do not have 100% assurance that if they were to die today,
that heaven's their home.
Lord, I pray,
Today, they would trust Christ as their Lord and Savior.
They would have that assurance from Your Word that heaven is their home, not because of
any work that they've done, not because of any religious observance that they've held
to, because of what the Lord Jesus Christ did on the cross of Calvary.
We ask now in these few moments of invitation that You would have Your will and way in our
lives, and we'll thank You for what You'll do, for it's in Christ's name we pray, amen.